We just wrote our first reducer our user reducer and we got introduced to some new concepts and some
new javascript features such as the switch statement and this default parameter value inside of our
function but now that we have our reducer and we imported into our root reducer and used our combined
reduces function from redux to create our actual route reduce our object we need to still create our
store.
Now in order to create the store we have to make a another file inside of redux called stored J.
Yes.
And this one is just gonna go into its own file and I'm gonna call a store j ust inside of storage yes
we need to import in the create store function as well as the apply middleware function from redux.
So if you remember from that image I showed you what we need to do is add middleware to our store so
that whenever actions get fired or dispatched we can catch them and then display them.
And the middle wears which is the peace in the middle between our actions firing and our root reducer
are pretty much just functions that receive actions in and then do something with them and then pass
them out into the root reducer.
That's all it is.
This redux lawyer library that I made you guys install is pretty much just that and all it does is it
catches the action it console logs it out for us and then it moves it along.
So all we need to do to bring that in is we just import logger from redux logger and this is a really
handy middleware because once we finish writing all of this configuration and setup which is quite extensive
I totally understand it will make it much easier for us to understand what it is that we did so once
we have these required libraries we then import in our Ruby reducer from our reducer file and now we
have to actually set up our middleware.
So the middleware is that the store is expecting from redux is going to be an array and that array we
can set ourselves as this thing called middleware.
Right.
We just set it as this contest and we make it an array and inside is our logger middleware.
This is pretty much just that function that I was telling you about from redux logger and we're putting
it inside of this array next in order for us to actually make our store.
We're going to literally call it our store can't store equals create store and this is a function that
gets both a root reducer and also the return value of apply.
Middleware is an inside of the supply middle where we are going to spread in our middleware.
So what this will do is this will spread in all of the methods or all of the values in this array into
this function call as individual arguments.
And this way if we ever needed to add more things to the middleware we can just add it to this array
value that we have here.
Now you'll actually see us do this later on in the lesson.
But for now just understand that we're doing it in this syntax just because it's more scalable and you'll
totally see that as we build it out.
Otherwise we didn't actually have to sort this value.
We could have just put them in manually like so this would perfectly work because we only have the one
logger middleware and apply middleware it just takes an infinite number of different middleware so that
we can just put them in like so.
But instead we're just gonna do it this way because in the future we might want to modify this array
based on certain conditions you'll totally see it.
Don't worry.
But this is just one thing to keep in mind.
And with this we've written our store we're gonna export this out as the default value.
And then with this new store object that we've instantiated with create store we're gonna bring this
into our in next year and we're going to pass it into our provider.
So I know it's been a while since we cover the provider in the last lesson but just there was a refresher.
The provider is this component class that we get from reactor redux that once passed the store object.
We'll be able to give that read store context to the rest of the application so we can dispatch actions
to that store or we can actually pull values off of the store and into our components and it all comes
from this provider.
So our to do that we need to import in the store from our store dodgy us which is inside of our redux
folder as the store.
Now once we have this we are just going to pass it in as a value called store in provider like so and
that's it.
It's a lot of configuration guys.
I definitely totally understand that it's way more configuration than you guys are probably used to
seeing.
But with this code written like this we now have access to redux inside of our application.
We had to build out our store we had to configure a route reducer so we had some kind of value.
So for us to actually display but now that we have this we can actually start implementing the right
actions into our application so that redux can start storing the value of our user into our new user
reducer and out of our app GST now in order for us to do that.
We actually have to create the action that is going to trigger the correct case inside of our switch
statement.
Now as we know this set current user is what the action type we're expecting to be so that it sets the
current user value inside of our user reduce our object as the payload of this action object.
Now what we're going to do in order to make that is we are going to create these action creator functions
and they sound way more complicated than they actually are.
So what we're going to do to make them is we're going to put them inside of a file called user dot action
structure.
Yes.
And they literally are just functions that return objects.
The only thing is that each object is in the correct format that the action is expected to be.
So for our set current user action created function it's going to be a function that takes one parameter
the user object whatever that user object is it's either our user off right or our user snapshot object
that we create inside of our firebase utilize.
As you remember from our objects or it's not.
So instead of calling this thoughts at state we are going to fire off an action that holds that value
that we were setting state to before.
And we're just going to call it are user then what this function returns is an object where the type
is set current user.
This is the exact same string that our reducer is expecting.
So we've just got to remember that we got to make sure that we always align the action creators type
with the reduced type expectation in order to create the appropriate effects in our reducer and what
we're going to do with that user is we're going to set it as the payload.
So as I mentioned this shape of an object is all a action is.
It has a type which is equal to a string and then it has a payload.
And because these strings should never change we want to use capital and snake case.
So we want to use underscores wherever their spaces and with this we've created ARG user action.
So we have the action that are components are going to leverage in order to actually update our reducer
as with the appropriate values.
Now I know this was a lot of configuration in these last two lessons.
It was just a setting up so many things.
And honestly it's a lot and it's very overwhelming redux is definitely one of the more challenging concepts
in the react ecosystem because of this reason there's so much setup required just to get started with
redux.
And in each of the setup there's a concept we got to think about because redux is so opinionated about
how to be used.
And this is the tradeoff of using redux but I promise you it's extremely extremely valuable and super
powerful.
So in the following lessons we're going to see how we use this how we bring this into components how
this all looks in the end.
And I know you had to endure a lot of this configuration but hopefully at least conceptually it made
sense about why we had to do this but we're going to use this a lot.
We're going to repeat this pattern many many times.
And once you watch those lessons please come back to these videos.
Watch this again try and do it yourself.
Try and set up this redux yourself using the redux documentation that I'm going to link inside of your
resources and you'll hopefully understand why it's all happening but redux is definitely a very large
picture kind of library.
You have to see it all in action before all of these pieces slowly start to make sense and once it all
clicks You're going to have that eureka moment.
So with all of these concepts and all of this configuration that Andre and I have taught you guys hopefully
this makes some sense if it doesn't I promise you by the end it will definitely make sense because we're
going to use it a lot.
So now that we've finished our setup we're going to bring this into our components so we can start leveraging
not only the new user actually created but also this current user value inside of our producer and we're
going to do that in the next lesson.